 Today is May 27, 2025, and this is technical components focus group number two. So let's start with introductions. So please share your name, pronouns, intended major, and briefly why you signed up for the study.
 I signed up. I don't know. I like selling the flyers talking about that. I thought it was very interesting. Okay. I'm Manalala. I'm 27. I'm doing cog sci. And I also saw the flyers and I thought it was interesting. I'm a 26. She's her pronouns. Also a cog sci major. And I signed up because I was in the Dalai Lama
 Well, thank you for being here and sharing different confirm your participation. We'll go around one more time just to ask each of you to state your name and then the following phrase. I can send to participating in this focus group.
 I can send to participating in this group. Perfect. Let's dive into questions. Um, so the first section is talking about using data and an app to kind of support your mental health. Um, some apps kind of just a little background will know, um, that they're like tracking your data without you actually realizing it. Uh, for example, when you have a phone or a watch might already know how much you sleep, uh, how active you are, where you sleep,
 where you tend to go, how much time you spend on certain apps is kind of tracking all these things without you really having to do anything. Um, so yeah, this data is gathered in the background and now imagining an app, uh, that could use this information to offer like personalized tips, uh, to check in on when something seems off in your mental health. Like if it notices you haven't been sleeping that much, it might suggest some ideas to help with that. Uh, so yeah, or just kind of having like a nudge or a support buddy. So we're curious to,
 to hear about your thoughts on this type of technology. And the first question is just your initial reaction to an idea like this, like having your data being used to support your mental health on campus. Uh, I, my initial reaction is I don't really mind if my data is being used in this way cause like apps are already tracking it. So personally I don't mind. I think one thing that I would find weird is if the app gives me a suggestion without
 saying why. So I would like the app to tell me so explicitly, Oh, we noticed this like explicitly showing me the data. Like, Oh, I noticed that your movement was low this week and then giving me a suggestion. But if it wasn't a suggestion without the explanation, I would find it a bit weird and I don't know if I would trust it. So my initial reaction is I, I'm cool with that.
 Data being used. But the only thing that like I thought of was like it could become a chore at some point when like the notifications pop up. Um, um, like if it happens, like if it's just because I'm feeling bad or something like I know this is a pattern that's like, and then it sends a notification like, Oh, we noticed like because of this, like, are you feeling okay? Um, if it's like only when I'm feeling down, that's like fine. But if it's like regular notifications that are like, Hey, this is how you're feeling today. And it's just like usual stuff. I would get annoyed of it.
 Yeah. Okay. Cool. Next question. What kind of
 support or features would motivate you to use an app like this? Yeah. So if this app is going to support your mental health, is there anything that comes to mind that would motivate you to kind of use it? Whether that be like helping you out with sleep tracking or any, anything like that?
 The thing that I think is, I don't know if the app would be able to do that, but something that I try to do is that I have in my notes in my phone, I have every exercise that I do. So if this was automatic in the app, that would be really helpful because sometimes I forget to put it on. Um, however, I'm not sure if it's sometimes like, it's like I like to go climbing and I don't have my phone with me, so I don't know if my phone would be able to know.
 But if somehow there was a functionality in the app where I could just like click about it and say, Oh, I did this.
 Yeah. So I think sort of like what she said, I think before I tried to do like a assignments tracking thing, like if I did a task, I would try to mark it off on like a spreadsheet that I made myself. I don't know about like the difference between like
 the, the issue with like data tracking versus it being useful. Like I would be worried if it's like tracking too much, but it would be nice if there was like an easy way to just mark down when I get something done or to like quantify when I'm getting or when I'm being productive for like reaching a goal that I want to get to or something.
 Um, I think that would be super helpful. Yes. Uh, apps that I have used before is usually you, like if you drink a certain amount of water, you click and then it upgrades the amount of water that you drink and it keeps sending you the reminders. But usually like parts of the app are paid and that's annoying. And another thing that at least I found somewhat helpful to me in terms of drinking water is that I have a goal in my mind.
 I'm drinking one bottle of water before lunch and one bottle of water before dinner. So somehow that could be implemented. That would be good. I think that would be really cool. Like, for example, like sleeping, like normally you sleep midnight or something in the morning. Sorry. Like if the app is like, this is like, I don't know if I'm saying this right, but like,
 these are like the times we recommend for you to like sleep based on like how you normally sleep and you would get like actual like good amount of sleep. Like I guess like most people are like recommended is like eight hours of sleep, right? It's like if you go to sleep at midnight, try to wake up at eight instead or go to sleep like two hours earlier, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. So I think another part is if the app is to like incentivize me to use it in any way, I think the best part would be
 if it's like convenient and doesn't add more work to my usual schedule already. So like if I'm to track an assignment or if I need to like a reminder to drink water, like I'm not pressing too many buttons to get to certain things. Cause then like, like I said earlier, it like becomes a chore at a certain point and it makes you want to like not use the app. Yeah. Kind of building on top of that. Our next question is what questions or concerns come up to mind with an app like this? It could be like the constant notifications, but any other concerns or questions that come up?
 Oh, there you go. Very random. I don't know if that would be a problem, but I just think that if this is
 an app connected to Dartmouth and if it asks me to log in using dual verification, that would be very annoying. And I wouldn't be from like a hassle standpoint because you have to log in. Yeah. So more the logistics. Yeah. Yeah. For instance, if I'm, uh, I'm entering dark talk,
 I would have to log in through a verification code and you know, it takes a few seconds, but I think it would be another thing would be like being at school versus like during the summer. Cause like Greek names change and like, is it going to be annoying that the app is going to be like, Oh, your routine just changed. Right. But it's like, Oh, I'm at home. It's like different environments.
 Yeah. So I think I would, or this wouldn't be like a problem, but I think it would be annoying if it like pushed recommendations to me that didn't fit my lifestyle. If that makes sense. Cause I know that like mental health apps tend to like give recommendations to people that are like generalized. Um, so it'd be annoying if it's like, Oh, you should go outside. And it's like, I don't want to go outside. If that makes sense. Um, like I know that the recommendations that it's giving are trying to like help if I'm feeling
 down or something, but it's like, if you give me a recommendation and I like, think it's dumb, I'm probably going to stop using it after a while.
 I'm not interested in doing this. I'm not receiving information about that. And it's bad because like, I might need to be interested in doing this. So then I think that if you receive this survey again, you can reconsider. Also feel free to just chime in. You don't have to raise your hand. Okay. Jumping into the next question. We kind of brought up this a little bit, but what experiences, if any, have you
 had with other wellness apps or technologies that collect this type of data?
 I feel bad because I should. That's what I want to say. So I don't have a negative experience with that, but I think it can be negative in a way. If like, let us say they were talking about screen time and the message in the app. I don't know. I think another way,
 maybe to do this is that maybe in the app it could be customizable. The tone that you want to receive the messages. Some people want to receive a message being like, shut down your phone. So if that could be customized. So I haven't used a mental health app as far as I can remember. Yeah, I don't think so. But like, I guess the closest thing would be like, I tried to start journaling and then I stopped doing that after a while.
 I tend to just drop things like I'll start something and I'll drop it. Yeah, I don't know. I think like my thing with mental health apps in general is that I think it's more like a mindset thing. And it's like, if you're already using a mental health app, you're already in that mindset to improve. If that makes sense. I'm making a generalization. That's probably not true. So I think that the app would be useful or just mental health apps
 in general are useful. But it's like, to get to that point, you have to find like a person to want to do that. If that makes sense.
 I think it's like, remember each time that I like drink water to like, how much like water I drink, or like sometimes what I hated was that like, if I didn't put it in by like that day, then it like didn't matter anymore. And like, what if I busy today, I'll just do it tomorrow. And then I also I use this other like app, but it was just like so overwhelming. Like, you had a house, you had a pet.
 You had a garden. And like there was so many. So maybe like trying like how we said before, but like trying to make it not do like, there's so many things to do. Or like if you do want to like have like, a little like, I guess, game area, you could you be like, Oh, if you want to, like have flowers, or I don't know something that could be like a separate thing.
 And then you have to be you need this to like, just use that in general. Another thing that I thought that I don't think it's the question at all, just came to my mind now is that if we could have a like a period tracker in this app to track your period tracker cycle, that'd be helpful. I think I've tried to use one of those at some point, and then they dropped, but if it was all in one app,
 I would probably use it. Last question in this section is what types of data, for example, sleep, stress, screen time, do you think would be most helpful in understanding your own well being? I can think of the ones that I think are least helpful.
 I'm just looking at what we have here, I think maybe like, if we have the canvas activity data as how often you check or submit assignments, I don't know, like how often you check assignments is any helpful, maybe it is, but I don't think it is. And how often you submit assignments. I mean, that's just the deadline. So you know what I mean? I don't think it's like super meaningful, but maybe it is.
 I think in a way, like, again, I don't know if I'm answering the question, but I just thought about, I think
 that if we could choose what we want from the app, that'd be helpful because I personally wouldn't use the app to track my assignments. And I would be annoyed if the app was trying to tell me what to do because I have my own way of doing it. Bouncing off of a canvas point, I feel like I do a lot of my work on my computer as a canvas. So like, I don't think how accurate
 I am. I think I'm just getting the data from my phone. I check it sometimes, but I don't really ever submit anything to canvas on my phone. So it's kind of like incomplete data, I guess, if it's programmed to take in no matter what. And then another thing I was thinking was like, I know you guys have like, you have like the sound, but like also just like sounds from like, when you're wearing headphones and stuff, but like, I listen to a lot of music and sometimes I don't realize that like, my music is like,
 it's like way too loud and it's actually kind of bad for me. So I think I just like, can track that somehow and then be like, Oh, you should like lower your volume a little bit. So for me personally, I think my mental health is best when like the weather outside is nice. So it's like the outdoor light levels thing. And also when I'm like around people, cause like I like being alone sometimes, but also like every now and then I will need to be around people to like, you know,
 be more social and it makes me feel better. But to jump off of the thing with like canvas and then like computers and stuff, not really related, but in class, like there's this project about like how to stay focused. And then I think the product was mainly on the phone, but the thing is that like, once again, like I also spend a lot of time on my computer. So it's like, it's better if it's like connected to like Google drive or like canvas.
 Instead of just being like, here's everything that's on your phone. Here's like your heartbeat or whatever. I think it's just more useful to just have connections on like apps or some sort of programs that you're like using. Okay. We're going to shift gears a little bit into user privacy and control. So basically how this app could kind of handle your personal data. Some apps that you decide what kinds of info you want to share, like turning certain things on and off.
 Not everyone is comfortable with the same things. So we want to ensure that we're building an app that students feel comfortable using and that they can trust. So we're curious, what makes you feel more in control of your data and what makes you uncomfortable? So first question, are there any types of data you wouldn't feel comfortable sharing with an app like this?
 Because if it's like the identified, it shouldn't be a problem. Like even if there's like a data loop or something like that, I don't have to worry about anything. Okay. Cool. And next question is what kind of privacy controls would make you feel more in control or build trust in an app like this? So if you would ever want to like pause data collection or delete data history or get reminders
 when the app is collecting, like if they're able to kind of track all of these things, is there anything that comes to mind that you would want to have control over in this app? So I think when you first create an account with the app, you should be opting in to things instead of opting out. And then when you have the actual app running and you're regularly using it in your settings page or whatever, each thing should be a separate section where you
 can just like toggle on and off whenever you feel like it.
 I feel like I'd be more, um, I feel more comfortable if I knew what you're using it for. So it's like, oh, you're tracking my canvas activity, but like, what are you using to calculate? Like, why are you using, wait, sorry, you're using this to calculate what like in the app, what is this? Like, what's the realization of it? The same point that I made before, like, I think I'm fine with this data being used. I would just like it to be explicit.
 How is it being used? Also like partially because of like privacy reasons, but also like these data to a certain extent, sometimes like, let us say that I just left my phone somewhere, you know, so I want to know if the reminders that I'm getting or the notifications that I'm getting are accurate or if it's just like something unexpected happened.
 Certain types of situations or times where you'd want the app to automatically stop collecting data, whether that be during sleep exams, when you're socializing.
 Or like if it's comparing my current state to like the pattern over time, if there was a certain time in history that I felt like shouldn't be included, that I could like just cross that out if there was a way like on the calendar to mark like, oh, this part, like don't keep it or like don't calculate this into the overall pattern.
 And that concludes the section on user privacy and control. Okay, now we're going to move more into interacting with the actual app and the AI support feature. So we want to talk about what it might feel like to actually interact with this kind of app, especially through something like an AI assistant. So like if you think about Spotify wrapped, how it gives you like a personalized summary at the end of the year with like your top artists,
 how much you listen, what like your vibe was. It helps you reflect on your music habits in a new way. So now like imagine that, but in like the context of this mental health app that includes an AI assistant that does something similar. So like it could offer check-ins, summaries and helpful suggestions to improve your wellbeing based on your habits. So it might say something like you've been getting more sleep this week, great job.
 So like it might even suggest ways to connect with others. Like, Hey, there's this campus event related to one of your interests. Like want to go check it out. So like keeping this in mind, if you're already using some kind of AI tool, like chat, GBT, how do you normally use them in your everyday life?
 And then can you think of a way that an AI tool could support your mental health or routines in any way? Okay. I think this is going to be okay. So I hadn't realized this is going to be AI and I personally am against using AI for like, um, daily life. Cause it's like very environmental.
 But so I think if it was an AI, I wouldn't use it. So I think it's cool if it's like learning from data, but like I would stray from like chat GBTs or chatbots style or like LOMs because like it creates this really weird, like connection with a chatbot and like for people to end up like being overreliant on it.
 And that like sort of keeps them away from like a social connection over like chatbot. Like, I don't know if this is something that's like being considered, but I don't think it would be a good idea to do it in a chatbot style. Um, yeah.
 I think it's cool if it's like, I don't know if it's like being considered, but I don't think it would be a good idea to do it in a chatbot style. Um, yeah.
 So was one of the questions, like, what do you use like chat GBT for? Like if you already use AI, like how do you use it in your everyday life? Okay. So, okay. Um, so I use chat GBT and like others.
 I don't really care about, um, but I don't use it for like mental health or anything.
 But like, I like take it with a grain of salt because I know that it's not perfect or anything like that. Okay. Kind of going back to the idea of like the chatbot, like if this app did include an AI assistant, how would you want it to interact with you? Or if there's some like alternate form of AI assistant that you would prefer at all?
 Is that, I don't know if you're familiar with the chatbot from bank of America. Exactly. Because I think that chatbot is, it is a chatbot because you ask questions, but it is never going to give you an answer in text. It's just going to give you like, I think it just processes the question and it gives you, um, things to click that just redirect you to a page that was written by someone.
 I think that would be reliable. Yeah. So I'm just against like the whole like chat bubble things back and forth. It's just really weird. And like, I don't know. Um, but like, especially for mental health, I think it'd be better if it was like buttons that you could click like, Oh, like I'm feeling this way or whatever, but not like a chat style. I'm just totally against it. It just feels so weird.
 So strange to me, like I get it if it's for like helping you with an assignment or something, but it's like, if I'm talking to something for mental health, I don't want it to be like talking to this like computer. Like, I feel like you should go and talk to people around you. Um, I'm just against that whole like over-reliance thing. Okay.
 I hate to chat to BT and then it's like really nice to you and then it gives you like, like emojis or whatever. Like my life, it creeps me out a little bit. Cause I'm like, why are you acting like you're after human beings? So like if the chat, like assistant just kind of like always have the same tone, like it doesn't have to be like mean or anything, but if you just like be polite, but like shows that they're like a robot, I think that would be helpful. Okay. That actually transitions.
 Pretty well into our next question, which is what kind of voice or communication style would you prefer from an AI system? Um, personally, I would, I would like it to be like commanding, like just tell me what to do. Don't be like, Oh, you should do this. But that's for me. Obviously everyone has different preferences. Um, but I would say like in general, like if I'm using an app, I would prefer to have like an option to choose
 what tone it would give me. Cause I think if you're having one for everyone, it's just not going to work out. Yeah. Yeah. I'm trying to, I'm trying to think of what would this interaction look like? I think I'm struggling with that because from what I understand, the app would be collecting data and like I would be able to see that this week I didn't do a lot of exercise. So if the bot is just telling me do exercise,
 well that's pretty obvious. I don't know like what, like what else would the bot be telling you to do? Yeah. Do we want to go into more technical component piece here with the chat bot? I don't know. Potentially. Yeah. Yeah. So I think there's a lot you could do and we've thought about the idea. It's a cool idea. The little bubble like Bank of America. But I think, I think one way this
 could work is integrating not just a single type of information, but integrating lots of different information and then giving you personalized, some kind of personalized feedback on that. What we envision is something very, very specific to Dartmouth sort of the Dartmouth community, like a system that sort of knows the camp that understands the campus, understands the term and the chat bot or whatever we call it. The assistant has access to that too. So is able to really give you personalized
 either feedback or some kind of therapeutic response or intervention. I see. I'm responding to that. I think that thinking about integrating like different types of data, then I see the point of using AI, but I guess you can do that and not have a chat or you can do that and have like just the information that is like integration of data on my screen instead of like, because
 I think the chat bot requires me to go talk to the chat bot and I wouldn't. But if I, if I open the app and I can see the information displayed, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. And the chat bot, I think you're getting at something important in the chat bot potentially just being something that figures out what you're trying to get and that delivers that to you can also sort of be a chat. I think when we think about chat bot, a very broad kind of like it understands your query because potentially there'd be all kinds of different
 data you could look at in the app. And this would be an alternative to having an alternative way to sort of get customized displays of that data right away and kind of natural language, but actually that you might not even be able to get if you were just selecting the tabs. To add onto that, I guess, or to build off of that. Sorry. I think that if it's going to be like AI slash chat bot style, it's like, it should just be very simple information on the
 home screen. Like because of this, you should do this or like prioritize what tasks I should do or work on at the moment. Um, because if it's given me like a whole text, I'm not reading all of that. Sorry. But if it's like very simple, like in card style, like recently, like because you've been feeling this way, like here's some suggestion and not like a, like, like I said, like not a wallet text that's like, Oh, like a bunch of things because like if I'm already busy and my schedule is already packed,
 like I, I feel like I know what I'm like feeling in terms of emotions. Um, and I don't need like a chat bot to tell me
 to get my movement to my day or something like that. Um, and another thing that I was thinking about, I think you were chatting was like, is this app just like for being on campus for Dartmouth? Because I'm just wondering like when people are like on off terms or like summer or just when they're not on campus, I feel like that also has a lot of like issues in mental health, right? Because like in a way you're like isolated from like different
 people and from like maybe a daily routine. So like, would the app be like worth it during those months? And like, if it isn't like, why would I keep it three to six months? I don't use it. Yeah. I think that it's a good point. And I think that probably dependent on a lot of what comes from you all at focus groups is how we think about off terms and whether it's something you keep using or whether it's something kind of specific.
 You have thoughts on that, whether it's something you'd want to use is for anybody to open this up to anyone. I personally think I would like to use it. Like if I'm ready to use it when I'm at school, I feel like it would almost become part of my routine to kind of like use it. And I think there is a lot of valuable data when you are out of school, like maybe like the canvas stuff isn't like valuable, right? But like sleeping, because a lot of people when they're not, don't have classes,
 they start sleeping like later, like at four, six in the morning, because they know they don't really wake up. And like, I think that does affect a lot of like, just a lot of people in general. So I think that it's so important. Yeah. I think it'd be cool for
 off-term. I think it could somehow track like what you're doing that makes you feel good or like more positive. Your way to say off-term or on-term or I meant during your off-term, it should like try to figure out like what you've been doing that like makes you feel more positive so that when you are on term, like if you are feeling down, it's like, Oh, like when you were at home or something like you did this and it made you feel better. So maybe you could try that.
 Yeah. I don't know when I was off, I used to make my own meals and it was nice. And it's pretty like, it seems that it's pretty obvious that you can make that connection yourself. Okay. Kind of moving away from the features. How would you feel about an optional feature that could connect you with other students based on like shared interests?
 And also kind of, if we could implement this, what safeguards or like limits would you want on any peer connection features? I think that if it's related to movement, I would be very okay with it.
 Regarding social activities. I don't know. Cause I think it really depends on like, what are the types of social activities that we have? Um, but I can't really think of any other way that we could connect.
 Like it's like being left and right, like who, you know, who do I want to chat with or like, is it like getting matched, I guess, to other users? Sorry. It doesn't happen yet. So you can probably tell it's putting out a lot of different ideas and getting kind of your initial take on it. Uh, which has been great so far. I think we've got some great ideas during this group. Um, but I mean, I don't know.
 I don't think we envisioned sort of a swipe, but I think different ways. Some, we have had, um, come up before the idea of sort of a physical activity linking up people who are interested in certain clubs or activities or certain goals or some way of kind of this being a balancing piece to kind of the other concern that came up earlier of this, we don't want something to promote isolation.
 So I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we could kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of,
 um, I think we can kind of,
 um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of,
 um, I think we can kind of,
 um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um, I think we can kind of, um,
 I think it really depends on the exact trends that we're talking about. Like if we're mentioning sleep, I don't mind, but if it's something that I can't really think of, what would it be? But if it's something that could potentially be weird to share to administration, I think that would be uncomfortable, but I can come up with an example right now.
 I think it might be good. Like in a way, like if, um, like I guess, I guess it doesn't really matter cause like in the winter, there's not a lot of movement, but like if you have like very, very low trends of like no movement movement during the winter, maybe that can like, I don't know, encourage like clubs or, I mean,
 I don't know, something like that. I think it could be helpful, but I just don't really know how much they're going to actually use that data for anything they plan to do. So I think like certain data, like the sleep thing would be useful for like certain professors to help them be more empathetic of students. Um, yeah, I don't, I can't really think of like a data,
 like sharing thing that would not be okay to share with admin. If it's once again, be identified and then it's like general, like it's taking the average of everyone. It shouldn't be a problem. I think it would be an issue that's like personal things being shared with admin or professors or whoever, which I don't think is the question, but yeah, but general, I think would be okay in my opinion. I have another thing. One thing I would be kind of against would be like,
 I don't know if you guys saw about this, but like classrooms, like if you ever thought about like, like if one professor wants to know how their class is doing and like maybe stress levels or stuff like that, I would be a little bit more against that just because, you know, classes are kind of like sometimes it can be small. So then that kind of makes me feel more like vulnerable to like your class, like your peers know, like they kind of figure out like, you know, who's data is who you're like,
 kind of knows that feels like too small, but cool for it to be uncomfortable. But if it's like just general, all campus trends, then I don't think there's an issue. One thing that I just thought about is that I think I would be okay if the app tracked like substance consumption or my understanding, but I don't think I would be comfortable with this data being shared with admin.
 Okay. Well, thank you all so much for your time and your thoughts today. We've covered a lot clearly and your input is invaluable to move forward with this project. Um, but before we wrap up, we were going to ask you to take the next five to 10 minutes to complete a brief online survey about your background and wellbeing. Your responses will be stored
 securely and kept confidential and only de identified aggregate data will be used in any presentations or publications. Does anyone have any final thoughts or questions before we have you complete the survey? Stop recording. Check.
